Feat: Update get started with Konnect and transit gateway documentation (#7151)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/gateway-manager/data-plane-nodes/transit-gateways.md

1. Add one or more CIDR blocks that will be forwarded to your AWS Transit Gateway. Ensure these do not overlap with the CIDR of your cloud gateways network.
1. Paste the **RAM Share ARN** and the **Transit Gateway ID** you saved earlier into the matching fields.
1. For DNS configuration, add the IP addresses of DNS servers that will resolve to your private domains, along with any domains you want associated with your DNS.
1. Click **Save**.

### Accept Transit Gateway attachment request

1. From the **AWS Console > VPC > Transit Gateway Attachments**.
2. Wait for an attachment request coming from the AWS Account ID you used in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
1. Accept the attachment to complete the setup.

Once the transit gateway attachment is successful, add a route where the upstream services are running, and configure the route to forward all traffic for the {{site.konnect_short_name}} managed VPC via the transit gateway. This ensures that traffic from the {{site.konnect_short_name}} data plane reaches the service and the response packets are routed back correctly.

## More Information

* [Dedicated Cloud Gateways](/konnect/dedicated-cloud-gateways/)

> * [Network Resiliency and availability](/konnect/network-resiliency/)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Network Resiliency and availability](/konnect/network-resiliency/)
* [Getting started with transit gateways - Amazon VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/tgw/tgw-getting-started.html)
```

---
title: How to configure Transit Gateway
---

> This guide will walk you through connecting your {{site.konnect_short_name}} managed Dedicated Cloud Gateways to AWS Transit Gateway, providing a secure and private channel for your API traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through connecting your {{site.konnect_short_name}}-managed Dedicated Cloud Gateways to AWS Transit Gateway, providing a secure and private channel for your API traffic.
```

> ## Prerequsites 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites 
```

> Before you start setting up the Transit Gateway with your {{site.konnect_short_name}} Dedicated Cloud Gateways, ensure that you have the following prerequisites:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I think you could remove this preamble since it's implied that they have to have these before doing the steps.

> * A {{site.konnect_short_name}} Cloud Control Plane

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A {{site.konnect_short_name}} control plane
```
since I think they're all cloud CPs?

> * AWS account with administrative privileges to create resources and manage peering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An AWS account with administrative privileges to create resources and manage peering
```

> * The **AWS ID** which can be found in {{site.konnect_short_name}} by selecting the desired Network from **Gateway Manager** > **Networks**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The **AWS ID**. You can find this in {{site.konnect_short_name}} by selecting the desired Network from **Gateway Manager** > **Networks**
```

> ## Configure AWS Transit Gateway

Reviewer 2: Maybe not for now, but since this is third-party instructions, can we find an AWS doc to link to that covers this instead of writing up our own? Just so maintenance is easier.

Reviewer: This one might be a lost battle. I know Michael wanted us to maintain 3rd party instructions for key docs, and CGWs feels like it could be one.

Author: I thought about this overnight -- I think if we remove it, it should be a fast follow.

1. While logged in to AWS, select the same region as your cloud gateways network. 
1. Select **VPC** > **Transit Gateways**, then click **Create Transit Gateway**.

> 1. Name the transit gateway then click **Create Transit Gateway**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Name the transit gateway and then click **Create Transit Gateway**. 
```

This will display a **Transit Gateway ID**, save this. 

### Configure AWS resources access

> 1. Navigate to the **Resource Access Manager**, then click  **Create Resource Share**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **Resource Access Manager**, then click **Create Resource Share**. 
```

1. Select **Transit Gateways** as the resource type, and check the box for the transit gateway that you created in the previous section.
1. Give the Resource Share a name.
1. Click **Next** and leave the default managed permission settings as they are.
1. On the next screen, select **Allow external accounts** and then choose **AWS Account**. Paste the **AWS ID** you copied from {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
1. Click **Add**, and review your settings before clicking **Create**.

After creating the resource share, copy the **RAM Share ARN**. You will need this to finish configuration in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

### Configure {{site.konnect_short_name}}

> 1. From {{site.konnect_short_name}} navigate to the **Gateway Manager**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From {{site.konnect_short_name}}, navigate to the **Gateway Manager**.
```

> 1. Within the **Networks** tab, select the desired network then select **Attach Transit Gateway**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Within the **Networks** tab, select the desired network, then select **Attach Transit Gateway**.
```

> 1. In the form that appears, enter a **Transit Gateway Name**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the form that appears, enter a **Transit Gateway Name**.
```

1. Add one or more CIDR blocks that will be forwarded to your AWS Transit Gateway. Ensure these do not overlap with the CIDR of your cloud gateways network.
1. Paste the **RAM Share ARN** and the **Transit Gateway ID** you saved earlier into the matching fields.
1. For DNS configuration, add the IP addresses of DNS servers that will resolve to your private domains, along with any domains you want associated with your DNS.
1. Click **Save**.

### Accept Transit Gateway attachment request

> 1. From the **AWS Console > VPC > Transit Gateway Attachments**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the **AWS Console**, go to  **VPC** > **Transit Gateway Attachments**.
```

> 2. Wait for an attachment request coming from the AWS Account ID you used in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Wait for an attachment request coming from the AWS Account ID you used in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
```

> 1. From the AWS Console > VPC > Transit Gateway Attachments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the **AWS Console > VPC > Transit Gateway Attachments**.
```

> 2. Wait for an attachment request coming from the **AWS Account ID** you used in {{site.konnect_short_name}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Wait for an attachment request coming from the AWS Account ID you used in {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
```
Since we aren't performing an action on AWS Account ID, I think we can remove the bold.

Once the transit gateway attachment is successful, add a route where the upstream services are running, and configure the route to forward all traffic for the {{site.konnect_short_name}} managed VPC via the transit gateway. This ensures that traffic from the {{site.konnect_short_name}} data plane reaches the service and the response packets are routed back correctly.

> ## More Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## More information
```

## More Information

* [Dedicated Cloud Gateways](/konnect/dedicated-cloud-gateways/)

> * [Network Resiliency and availbility](/konnect/network-resiliency/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Network Resiliency and availability](/konnect/network-resiliency/)
```
